# Analise-Algoritmos-de-Ordenacao
Analysis with Python graphs of some sorting algorithms implemented in C.

# Objective
This project performs a practical and visual analysis of the performance of different sorting algorithms implemented in C, with visualization of the results in graphs generated by Python.
Provide a practical experience with sorting algorithms, allowing you to compare the theory with the real performance of the algorithms on different data sizes.

# Implemented Algorithms
- Selection Sort: Selects the smallest element and moves it to the correct position at each iteration. 
Complexity: O(n²)
- Insertion Sort: Builds a sorted list by inserting each element in the correct position. 
Complexity: O(n²) in the worst case, O(n) in the best case (almost sorted list)
- Bubble Sort: Compares and swaps adjacent elements to sort the list. 
Complexity: O(n²) in the worst case, O(n) in the best case (sorted list)
- Merge Sort: Efficient divide and conquer algorithm. Complexity: O(n log n) in all cases
- Quick Sort: Divides the list with a pivot. Complexity: O(n log n) on average, O(n²) in the worst case (bad pivot choice)
- Heap Sort: Uses a heap structure to sort the elements. Complexity: O(n log n) in all cases

## Setup

It is recommended to use a Python virtual environment to manage dependencies.  
To create and activate a virtual environment, run:

```
python -m venv venv
```
On Windows: ```venv\Scripts\activate```<br>
On Linux/macOS: ```source venv/bin/activate```


Then, install the required dependencies:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

# Compilation
To compile the project, use the following command in the terminal:
```bash
gcc src/main.c src/sorting_algorithms.c src/utils.c -o main
```
# Usage

After compiling, you can run the program with:

 Windows:  ``` .\main.exe ```<br>
 Linux/macOS: ``` .\main ```

The program will create the resultados.csv file with the execution times of each algorithm.

Run the Python script to generate and view the graph:
python python/generategraphs.py

The graph will be saved as grafico_ordenacao.png in the root of the project.

# Notes

The resultados.csv file is overwritten with each execution of the C program.
The Python script automatically reads the data from the CSV.
